# A Parser for SL — Simple Language

Implementation of a Parser (syntax analysis phase) for the Simple Language compiler.

This is a project developed for the subject MO403 - Implementation of Programming Languages taught by professor Tomasz Kowaltowski during the second semester of 2020.

The subject website: https://sites.google.com/unicamp.br/ic-mo403-mc900/main

## Project Description
The purpose of this task is the implementation of a syntax recognizer (parser) for SL, using Linux tools flex and bison. Two files should be submitted: scanner.l and parser.y to be used by these tools. The submission will be tested by the program test_parser whose C files (.c and .h) are provided for download. The test program will print a message confirming the correctness of the submitted SL program or an error message.

A complete syntax specification for SL is provided [here](syntax_sl.pdf).

The submission will be processed by the following sequence of Linux commands:
```
bison -d -o parser.c parser.y
flex -i -o scanner.c  scanner.l
gcc -std=c99 -pedantic -o test_parser *.c
for each test NN:
    test_parser  <  progNN.sl  >  resultNN
```

If Bison is executed with the option "-v" it will produce a file parser.output with a detailed description of the LR(1) states which can be helpful in debugging the grammar.

There are three sets of test files. Tests 00 to 27 cover the minimal part of SL to be implemented. Optional tests 31 to 37 cover type declarations and arrays. Finally, optional tests 41 to 43 cover functions as parameters. The correct option should be chosen for submission.

### Hint
The parsing function generated by Bison must be informed that the process is finished; this can be done by including a semantic action for the starting symbol only. For instance, the first rules might look like:
```
program
  : function END_OF_FILE {return 0;}
  ;

function
  : function_header  block
      ;

etc ...
```

### Remarks
* Read the Bison manual!
* Scanner specification from the previous task should be used (if correct!) with a minimum number of changes (e.g. included files' names).
* File all.zip (see auxiliary files) provides the test program mentioned above as well as the test files and the results.
* Maximum number of submissions is 20 — test your solutions exhaustively before submission!
* It will be possible to extend your parser to cover optional parts in the next stages of your project (tree construction and final MEPA code generation).
* This task is worth 15% of the final project grade.
* Due to the number of tests and the processing required for each of them, the results of each submission may take up to 30 seconds or even more, depending on the current load of the SuSy system.

### Obs
* The `all.zip` file mentioned had the files contained in the directory `tests` and the files `src/test_parser.h` and `test_parser.c`.
* This parser is based on the scanner implemented previously. The scanner project can be found on [sl-scanner](https://github.com/sabrina-beck/sl-scanner)

## Project Execution

In order to run the program use the following command:
```
make run
```

In order to run the tests use:
```
make test
```